Your safety is protected in a clinical trial in three ways.
1) Ethical guidelines. The goal of clinical research is to increase understanding of human biology
and discover treatments that improve human health.
To determine if a new drug is safe or effective, it is tested on people who are recruited as participants in clinical trials.
There are risks associated with this research.
The purpose of ethical guidelines is both to protect patients and healthy volunteers,
and to preserve the integrity of the science.
2) Institutional Review Board (IRB).
00:01:01:100 → 00:01:08:000
Once a clinical trial is designed and ready for review,
Most, but not all, clinical trials in the United States are approved and monitored by an IRB.
An IRB is an independent committee that consists of
physicians, statisticians, other scientists, and members of the community
who review the study design to ensure that the risks are minimal when compared with potential benefits.
You should ask the research coordinator whether the research you are considering participating in
was reviewed and approved by an IRB.
If the research has been approved by the IRB,
it has strong ethical integrity and the rights of participants are protected.
3) Informed consent.
Informed consent is the process of learning the key facts about a clinical trial before deciding whether to participate.
The research team provides an informed consent document, which includes such details about
study's purpose, its duration, required procedures, risks and benefits, and who to contact.
The process of providing information to participants continues throughout the study.
If you decide to enroll in the trial, you will need to sign the informed consent document.
You are free to withdraw from the study at any time.
For more information about research protections, see here (Slide1):
For more information on participants’ privacy and confidentiality, see here (Slide2):